README.md, before:

# ChefDK_Bootstrap [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap)

## Setup your laptop for Chef development in minutes

Run one simple command to easily set up your Windows or Mac machine
for Chef cookbook development in about **20 minutes**.

## Before You Begin
* If you are on a Windows machine, you will need at least PowerShell 3.0. We recommend [PowerShell 5.0](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=50395) because it supports [Microsoft DSC](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/PowerShell/DSC/overview).

* If you are behind a proxy, you will need to export these [proxy environment variables](#if-you-are-behind-a-proxy) first.

## Windows Quickstart

Copy the PowerShell command below and paste them into a **PowerShell Admin** console. This will download and run the [bootstrap](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1)
script on your workstation.

```PowerShell
 (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1).Content | Invoke-Expression
```

## Mac Quickstart

Copy the command below and paste it into a terminal. This will download and run the [bootstrap](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap) script on your workstation.

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap | bash
```

### Mac ChefDK profile setup
Follow the instructions in the [ChefDK README](https://github.com/chef/chef-dk#using-chefdk-as-your-primary-development-environment) to complete the Chef workstation setup.

---
## If you are behind a proxy
### Windows

#### Set Proxy Environment Vars
Copy/paste these environment variables into your terminal.

```PowerShell
# change these values to your proxy address
$env:http_proxy='http://myproxy.example.com:1234'
```

```PowerShell
$env:https_proxy=$env:http_proxy
```

```PowerShell
# don't go through the proxy for these addresses.
# change example.com to your corporate DNS domain
$env:no_proxy='localhost,127.0.0.1,example.com'
```

#### Use this proxy-aware bootstrap script
Copy the PowerShell command below and paste them into a **PowerShell Admin** console. This will execute the [bootstrap](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1)
script on your workstation.

```PowerShell
 (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1 -ProxyUseDefaultCredentials -Proxy $env:https_proxy).Content | Invoke-Expression
```

### Mac
Copy/paste these environment variables into your terminal.

```bash
# change these values to your proxy address
export http_proxy=http://myproxy.example.com:1234
```

```bash
export https_proxy=$http_proxy
```

```bash
# don't go through the proxy for these addresses.
# change example.com to your corporate DNS domain
export no_proxy='localhost,127.0.0.1,example.com'
```

*To make these changes permanent, export these environment variables from your bash or zsh profile.*

Now run the [Quickstart for Mac](#mac-quickstart)

## Customization
If you want to use your own custom wrapper cookbook, add the name of your cookbook and your private supermarket source to these commands instead of the original [Quickstart](#windows-quickstart) (examples included below).

### JSON attributes
You can pass in attributes via URL/path to a JSON file (see the --json-attributes option in [chef-client](https://docs.chef.io/ctl_chef_client.html) ). Right now we're passing this in via the `CHEFDK_BOOTSTRAP_JSON_ATTRIBUTES` environment variable, but in a future version, we'll likely make it a named parameter of the bootstrap script.

#### Windows
```PowerShell
$env:CHEFDK_BOOTSTRAP_JSON_ATTRIBUTES = "http://server/attributes.json"
```
#### Mac
```bash
export CHEFDK_BOOTSTRAP_JSON_ATTRIBUTES="http://server/attributes.json"
```

### Custom cookbook
#### Windows

```PowerShell
$install = (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1 -ProxyUseDefaultCredentials -Proxy $env:https_proxy).Content

"$install <your cookbook name> <your private supermarket url>" | Invoke-Expression
```

#### Mac

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap | bash -s -- <your cookbook name> <your private supermarket url>
```

## What does it do?
This cookbook installs these tools:

### Editor
[Atom](https://atom.io), a free, general purpose, cross-platform, open source,
text editor. Out of the box, Atom supports all the languages you will need
for Chef development: Ruby, PowerShell, Bash, XML, JSON, etc.

### Source Control
[Git](http://git-scm.com/) - command line git client and tools.


### Local Virtualization
[Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - Oracle's free, open source virtualization tool for local cookbook testing.

[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) - ChefDK's included [Test Kitchen]() tool uses Vagrant to spin up local VMs for cookbook testing.

----

## Recipes

### default
* Installs [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) for a Windows machine and [homebrew](http://brew.sh) for a Mac machine. Both of these are package managers, similar to `apt-get` on Ubuntu. Chocolatey is used to install packages like `posh-git` and `kdiff3`, while homebrew is used to install packages like `iterm2 `.

* Installs all the other tools marked `true` in the
`node['chefdk_bootstrap']['package']` hash.

* On Windows, includes the Powershell profile configuration recipe.

### atom
* Installs the Atom editor

### git
* Installs git.
* On Windows, installs git-credential-winstore, and posh-git.

### gitextensions
* On Windows, installs gitextensions, a GUI git client.

### kdiff3
* On Windows, installs the free, open-source diff/merge tool, kdiff3.

### powershell_profile
* Configures a global PowerShell profile to correct the $env:HOME environment
variable and run `chef shell-init powershell`.

### vagrant
* Installs Vagrant.

### virtualbox
* Installs Virtualbox.

### iterm2
* On Mac, installs iterm2.

## Attributes

The attributes defined by this recipe are organized under the
`node['chefdk_bootstrap']` namespace.

Attribute | Description | Type   | Default
----------|-------------|--------|--------
['atom']['source_url'] | Windows: Atom installer package source URL | URL String | https://atom.io/download/windows
['atom']['source_url'] | Mac: Atom installer package source URL | URL String | https://atom.io/download/mac
['package']['atom'] | Whether to install Atom or not | boolean | true
['package']['kdiff3'] | Whether to install kdiff3 or not | boolean | true
['package']['vagrant'] | Whether to install Vagrant or not | boolean | true
['package']['virtualbox'] | Whether to install Virtualbox or not | boolean | true
['package']['git'] | Whether to install git and related packages or not | boolean | true
['package']['gitextensions'] | Whether to install gitextensions or not | boolean | true
['package']['iterm2'] | Whether to install iterm2 or not | boolean | true
['package']['chefdk_julia'] | Whether to install chefdk_julia or not | boolean | false

## Author

Nordstrom, Inc.

## License

Copyright 2015 Nordstrom, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Updated readme for internal fork and changed URLs for installation to point at the internal git repository.

README.md, after:

# ChefDK_Bootstrap [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Nordstrom/chefdk_bootstrap)

## Derivative Work of Nordstroms

This cookbook is a local fork of the excellent work done by Nordstrom that is freely available on supermarket.chef.io. We have forked it so that we may host it internally.

## Setup your laptop for Chef development in minutes

Run one simple command to easily set up your Windows or Mac machine
for Chef cookbook development in about **20 minutes**.

## Before You Begin
* If you are on a Windows machine, you will need at least PowerShell 3.0. We recommend [PowerShell 5.0](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=50395) because it supports [Microsoft DSC](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/PowerShell/DSC/overview).

* If you are behind a proxy, you will need to export these [proxy environment variables](#if-you-are-behind-a-proxy) first.

## Windows Quickstart

Copy the PowerShell command below and paste them into a **PowerShell Admin** console. This will download and run the [bootstrap](https://https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1)
script on your workstation.

```PowerShell
 (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1).Content | Invoke-Expression
```

## Mac Quickstart

Copy the command below and paste it into a terminal. This will download and run the [bootstrap](https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap) script on your workstation.

```bash
curl https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap | bash
```

### Mac ChefDK profile setup
Follow the instructions in the [ChefDK README](https://github.com/chef/chef-dk#using-chefdk-as-your-primary-development-environment) to complete the Chef workstation setup.

---
## If you are behind a proxy
### Windows

#### Set Proxy Environment Vars
Copy/paste these environment variables into your terminal.

```PowerShell
# change these values to your proxy address
$env:http_proxy='http://myproxy.example.com:1234'
```

```PowerShell
$env:https_proxy=$env:http_proxy
```

```PowerShell
# don't go through the proxy for these addresses.
# change example.com to your corporate DNS domain
$env:no_proxy='localhost,127.0.0.1,example.com'
```

#### Use this proxy-aware bootstrap script
Copy the PowerShell command below and paste them into a **PowerShell Admin** console. This will execute the [bootstrap](https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1)
script on your workstation.

```PowerShell
 (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1 -ProxyUseDefaultCredentials -Proxy $env:https_proxy).Content | Invoke-Expression
```

### Mac
Copy/paste these environment variables into your terminal.

```bash
# change these values to your proxy address
export http_proxy=http://myproxy.example.com:1234
```

```bash
export https_proxy=$http_proxy
```

```bash
# don't go through the proxy for these addresses.
# change example.com to your corporate DNS domain
export no_proxy='localhost,127.0.0.1,example.com'
```

*To make these changes permanent, export these environment variables from your bash or zsh profile.*

Now run the [Quickstart for Mac](#mac-quickstart)

## Customization
If you want to use your own custom wrapper cookbook, add the name of your cookbook and your private supermarket source to these commands instead of the original [Quickstart](#windows-quickstart) (examples included below).

### JSON attributes
You can pass in attributes via URL/path to a JSON file (see the --json-attributes option in [chef-client](https://docs.chef.io/ctl_chef_client.html) ). Right now we're passing this in via the `CHEFDK_BOOTSTRAP_JSON_ATTRIBUTES` environment variable, but in a future version, we'll likely make it a named parameter of the bootstrap script.

#### Windows
```PowerShell
$env:CHEFDK_BOOTSTRAP_JSON_ATTRIBUTES = "http://server/attributes.json"
```
#### Mac
```bash
export CHEFDK_BOOTSTRAP_JSON_ATTRIBUTES="http://server/attributes.json"
```

### Custom cookbook
#### Windows

```PowerShell
$install = (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap.ps1 -ProxyUseDefaultCredentials -Proxy $env:https_proxy).Content

"$install <your cookbook name> <your private supermarket url>" | Invoke-Expression
```

#### Mac

```bash
curl https://github.wdig.com/raw/disid/chefdk_bootstrap/master/bootstrap | bash -s -- <your cookbook name> <your private supermarket url>
```

## What does it do?
This cookbook installs these tools:

### Editor
[Atom](https://atom.io), a free, general purpose, cross-platform, open source,
text editor. Out of the box, Atom supports all the languages you will need
for Chef development: Ruby, PowerShell, Bash, XML, JSON, etc.

### Source Control
[Git](http://git-scm.com/) - command line git client and tools.


### Local Virtualization
[Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - Oracle's free, open source virtualization tool for local cookbook testing.

[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) - ChefDK's included [Test Kitchen]() tool uses Vagrant to spin up local VMs for cookbook testing.

----

## Recipes

### default
* Installs [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) for a Windows machine and [homebrew](http://brew.sh) for a Mac machine. Both of these are package managers, similar to `apt-get` on Ubuntu. Chocolatey is used to install packages like `posh-git` and `kdiff3`, while homebrew is used to install packages like `iterm2 `.

* Installs all the other tools marked `true` in the
`node['chefdk_bootstrap']['package']` hash.

* On Windows, includes the Powershell profile configuration recipe.

### atom
* Installs the Atom editor

### git
* Installs git.
* On Windows, installs git-credential-winstore, and posh-git.

### gitextensions
* On Windows, installs gitextensions, a GUI git client.

### kdiff3
* On Windows, installs the free, open-source diff/merge tool, kdiff3.

### powershell_profile
* Configures a global PowerShell profile to correct the $env:HOME environment
variable and run `chef shell-init powershell`.

### vagrant
* Installs Vagrant.

### virtualbox
* Installs Virtualbox.

### iterm2
* On Mac, installs iterm2.

## Attributes

The attributes defined by this recipe are organized under the
`node['chefdk_bootstrap']` namespace.

Attribute | Description | Type   | Default
----------|-------------|--------|--------
['atom']['source_url'] | Windows: Atom installer package source URL | URL String | https://atom.io/download/windows
['atom']['source_url'] | Mac: Atom installer package source URL | URL String | https://atom.io/download/mac
['package']['atom'] | Whether to install Atom or not | boolean | true
['package']['kdiff3'] | Whether to install kdiff3 or not | boolean | true
['package']['vagrant'] | Whether to install Vagrant or not | boolean | true
['package']['virtualbox'] | Whether to install Virtualbox or not | boolean | true
['package']['git'] | Whether to install git and related packages or not | boolean | true
['package']['gitextensions'] | Whether to install gitextensions or not | boolean | true
['package']['iterm2'] | Whether to install iterm2 or not | boolean | true
['package']['chefdk_julia'] | Whether to install chefdk_julia or not | boolean | false

## Author

Nordstrom, Inc.

## License

Copyright 2015 Nordstrom, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
